ACTS, Pune 
PG-DAI Page 1 of 5 
 
 
  
Suggested Teaching Guidelines for 
AI Compute Platforms, Applications & Trends  
PG-DAI August 2025  
 
 
Duration: 52 Classroom hours and 58 Lab hours 
  
Objective: The objective of this module is to make students aware with the latest AI tools 
and Techniques used by IT Industry 
Prerequisites: Knowledge of fundamentals of programming and basic mathematics. ML & 
statistical knowledge 
Evaluation method: Theory exam– 40% weightage 
    Lab exam – 40% weightage      
Internal exam – 20% weightage 
List of Books / Other training material 
Courseware: No specific courseware for the module, faculty may share some course materials 
 
Reference: 
 Deep Learning, Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville 
 Neural Networks and Learning Machines, Simon Haykin 
 Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Christopher M. Bishop 
 Cloud Computing: Master The Concepts, Architecture and Applications With Real -
World Examples And Case Studies by Mehul Mahrishi Kamal Kant Hiran, Ruchi 
Doshi, Dr. Fagbola Temitayo 
 Kubernetes: Up and Running - Dive into the Future of Infrastructure, Second Edition 
[Paperback] Brendan Burns; Kelsey Hightower and Joe Beda by Brendan Burns 
(Author), Kelsey Hightower (Author), Joe Beda (Author) 
 Hands-on Pipeline as Code with Jenkins: CI/CD Implementation for Mobile, Web, and 
Hybrid Applications Using Declarative Pipeline in Jenkins (English Edition) by Ankita 
Patil Mitesh Soni 
 Introducing GitHub 2e by Brent Beer 
 
Note: 
o 40 hours for PySpark including both theory and lab sessions. 
o 70 hours for cloud computing including both theory and lab sessions. 
o Applications/case studies are advised to be covered under Lab Hours. 
o Each session is having 2 Hours for Theory and 2 Hours of Lab unless 
indicated otherwise. Lab assignments are indicatives. 
o Faculty is advised to give appropriate assignment for sufficient hands-on. 
o Faculty is advised to give at-least one end-to-end problem statement 
where students can execute their learning in a proper manner. 
 
 

ACTS, Pune 
PG-DAI Page 2 of 5 
 
 
  
Suggested Teaching Guidelines for 
AI Compute Platforms, Applications & Trends  
PG-DAI August 2025  
 
PySpark (20 Hrs of Theory and 20 Hrs of Lab) 40 Hours 
 
Session 1 & 2: 
 
o Apache Spark APIs for large-scale data processing 
o Overview, Linking with Spark, 
o Initializing Spark 
o Spark session & spark context 
 
o Resilient Distributed Datasets (RDDs), External Datasets, RDD Operations, 
o Passing Functions to Spark, Working with Key-Value Pairs, Shuffle operations, 
o RDD Persistence, Removing Data, Shared Variables, Deploying to a Cluster 
o Spark Data Frames 
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Run the provided Hadoop Streaming program using python 
o Install Spark 
 
Session 3 & 4: 
o EDA using PySpark 
o ETL jobs using sparks 
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Explore Data using PySpark 
Session 5: 
o Introduction to Kafka 
o Working with Kafka using Spark 
o Spark streaming 
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Install Kafka 
o Execute the spark streaming with Kafka 
 
Session 6: 
o Integration of setting Spark and Kafka 
o Setting up Kafka Producer and Consumer 
o Kafka Connect API 
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Connect the Kafka with API 
Session 7: 
o Machine Learning using Spark’s MLlib 
 
ACTS, Pune 
PG-DAI Page 3 of 5 
 
 
  
Suggested Teaching Guidelines for 
AI Compute Platforms, Applications & Trends  
PG-DAI August 2025  
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Explore MLib 
Session 8: 
o Deep Learning using Spark 
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Explore Deep Learning 
 
Session 9: 
o Spark SQL 
 
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Run the Spark SQL programs using step –runs for each and every code line 
o Analyze the election data using spark and provide analysis 
Session 10: 
o Connecting DB’s with Spark 
o Working with DB’s 
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Connecting DB’s with Spark 
o Accessing and manipulating the DB’s 
o Create a complex workflow using bash operator, a simple workflow using python 
 
 
DevOps for AI/ML (32 Hrs of Theory and 38 Hrs of Lab) 70 Hours 
 
Session 11 & 12: Git / GitHub 
 
o Introduction to Version control systems 
o Creating GitHub repository 
o Using Git – Introduction to Git commands 
 
Lab Assignment: 
o Create a GitHub repository from the command line 
 
Session 13 & 14: Introduction to containers (4T + 6L) 
o Introduction to DevOps 
o Introduction to Containers 
o Advantages of using container-based applications 
o Installing Docker and using basic Docker commands 
ACTS, Pune 
PG-DAI Page 4 of 5 
 
 
  
Suggested Teaching Guidelines for 
AI Compute Platforms, Applications & Trends  
PG-DAI August 2025  
 
o Build your own container-based application image 
o Networking in Docker 
o Managing containers – Logs / Resources 
 
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Create an httpd container running on port 8000. Name the container as web5. Do 
not map any directory. Create an “index.html” file & copy this file inside the container 
and check if the website displays your webpage. Again, modify the “index.html” file 
and copy it inside the container, and check if the website is updated or not. 
o Test any program on-base machine. Then create an image using Dockerfile to 
execute this exe program. Give image name as “Name: v1”. 
 
Session 15 & 16: Introduction to Kubernetes (4T + 6L) 
o Need for Kubernetes 
o Introduction to Kubernetes cluster – Basic terms - Management node, Worker 
Nodes, Pods, Deployment, and Service Types etc. 
o Working with Kubernetes Cluster – Creating deployment, Exposing Deployment as a 
service, managing your applications. Rolling application updates etc. 
 
Lab assignment:  
o Create a Kubernetes cluster, deploy and explore any app. 
 
Session 17 & 18: CI/CD with Jenkins (4T + 6L) 
 
o Introduction to CI/CD 
o Using Jenkins to build a CI/CD pipeline. 
 
Lab Assignments: 
 
o Create a CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Docker, and GitHub to automate the web by 
using the NGINX image. 
o Create a CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Docker, and GitHub to automate the web by 
using the httpd image. 
 
Cloud Computing: 
Session 19 & 20: 
o Cloud Computing Basics, Understanding Cloud Vendors
 (AWS/Azure/GCP), Definition, Characteristics, Components 
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Study about cloud and other similar configuration 
o Explore available solutions 
o Cloud Architecture 
ACTS, Pune 
PG-DAI Page 5 of 5 
 
 
  
Suggested Teaching Guidelines for 
AI Compute Platforms, Applications & Trends  
PG-DAI August 2025  
 
  
Session 21 & 22: 
o Cloud provider, SAAS, PAAS, IAAS and other Organizational scenarios of clouds, 
Administering & Monitoring cloud services, benefits, and limitations 
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Provide a solution on cloud as SAAS using available systems. 
 
Session 23 & 24: 
o Deploy application over cloud. Comparison among SAAS, PAAS, IAAS, Cloud 
Products and Solutions, Cloud Pricing, Compute Products and Services, Elastic 
Cloud Compute, Dashboard. 
 
Lab Assignments: 
o Deploy any application over the cloud platform. 
 
Session 25 & 26: 
o Exploring cloud services for AI/ML 
 
Lab Assignments: 
 
o Explore the different cloud computing platforms for AI/ML. 
 
Self-Study: AI applications in Financial Services including Insurance banking, stock markets 
& other financial markets like Forex–and Artificial Economics, AI applications in Health 
Sciences & other Scientific Applications, AI in Cloud Environment , Deployment of Models on 
a distributed platform. 
