ACTS, Pune 
PG-DAI Page 1 of 4 
 
Suggested Teaching Guidelines for 
Data Analytics PG-DAI August 2025  
 
 
Duration: 44 Classroom hours + 46 Lab hours 
 
Objective: To introduce the student to Data Analytics 
 
Prerequisites: Knowledge of Programming language of Python Programming and basics of 
statistics. 
 
Evaluation method: Theory exam– 40% weightage 
Lab exam – 40% weightage    
Internal exam– 20% weightage 
 
List of Books / Other training material 
 
Courseware: Business Analytics James R Evans 2nd Edition 
 
Reference Book: 
 
1. Business Analytics: Data Analysis &Decision-Making Hardcover – Widescreen 
2. Data Science for Business, Foster Provost & Tom Fawcett 
3. Data Science and Analytics Paperback by V. K. Jain (Author) 
4. Data Analytics for Beginners: A Beginner's Guide to Learn and Master Data 
Analytics, by Robert J. Woz 
5. Data Analytics: Become A Master in Data Analytics by Richard Dorsey 
 
Note: 
 Each session mentioned is of 2 hrs of Theory and 2 hours of Lab duration, 
unless indicated otherwise. T for Theory & L for Lab.  
 
 
Session 1 & 2: 
 Introduction to Business Analytics using some case studies 
 Data analytics Life Cycle: 
 Discovery 
 Data preparation 
 Model planning 
 Model building implementation 
 Quality assurance 
 Documentation 
 Management approval 
 Installation 
 Acceptance and operation 
 
 

ACTS, Pune 
PG-DAI Page 2 of 4 
 
Suggested Teaching Guidelines for 
Data Analytics PG-DAI August 2025  
 
Assignment –Lab: Setup workspace in either in Google Colab or Jupyter and go through the 
documentation of Pandas, Numpy, Sklearn libraries. 
 
Session 3: 
 Intelligent data analysis o Nature of Data 
 Analytic Processes and Tools  Analysis vs. Reporting 
 Modern Data Analytic Tools 
 
Assignment –Lab: Explore the nature of data. 
 
Session 4: 
 Visualization and Exploring Data 
 Case studies: Making Right Business Decisions 
based on data 
 
Assignment –Lab: Load a sample dataset and explore the data and draw some insights. 
Also use Matplotlib and seaborn libraries. 
 
Session 5: 
 Descriptive Statistical Measures 
 Summary Statistics - Central Tendency & Dispersion (Mean, Median, Mode, 
Quartiles, Percentiles, Range, Interquartile Range, Standard Deviation, 
 Variance, and Coefficient of Variation) 
 
Assignment –Lab: Load any dataset and find out the mean, median mode and other central 
tendencies of the dataset. 
 
Session 6: 
 Sample& population, Uni-variate and bi-variate sampling, re-sampling 
 Sample Spaces and Events 
 Joint, Conditional and Marginal Probability 
 Bayes’ Theorem 
 
Assignment –Lab: Load any dataset and apply Naive Bayes function and predict the output. 
 
Session 7: 
 Random Variable 
 Probability Distribution and Data 
 Continuous and discrete distribution – (Normal, Binomial, and Poisson distribution) 
 Central Limit Theorem 
 
Assignment –Lab: Generate random numbers and check if they are in normal distribution 
using scipy libraries. 
 
 
ACTS, Pune 
PG-DAI Page 3 of 4 
 
Suggested Teaching Guidelines for 
Data Analytics PG-DAI August 2025  
 
Session 8: 
 Sampling and Estimation 
 Statistical Interfaces 
 
Assignment –Lab: Load any dataset and explore sampling techniques 
 
Session 9: 
 Concepts of Correlation 
 Covariance 
 Pearson Correlation 
 Outliers 
 
Assignment –Lab: Load any dataset and find out the covariance between two fields and 
also find the correlation and determine how two fields are correlated. Also handle the 
outliers in the data. 
 
Session 10 & 11: 
 Hypothesis Testing 
 Z-Test 
 Chi-Square test 
 Skewness 
 
Session 12: 
 Predictive modelling and analysis 
 Application 
 Types 
 Benefits and challenges 
 The Future of predictive modelling 
 The Limitations of Predictive modelling 
 Predictive modelling Tools 
 
Session 13, 14 & 15: 
 Predictive Modelling (From Correlation to Supervised Segmentation): 
 Identifying Informative Attributes 
 Segmenting Data by Progressive Attributive 
 Models Induction and Prediction 
 Supervised Segmentation 
 Visualizing Segmentations 
 Trees as Set of Rules 
 Probability Estimation 
 Prescriptive Modelling 
 Difference between predictive and prescriptive modelling 
 How prescriptive analytics works? 
 Examples and use cases 
 
ACTS, Pune 
PG-DAI Page 4 of 4 
 
Suggested Teaching Guidelines for 
Data Analytics PG-DAI August 2025  
 
Session 16: (2T + 4L) 
 Regression Analysis 
 Forecasting Techniques 
 
 
Session 17: 
 Simulation and Risk Analysis 
 Optimization- Linear, Nonlinear 
 
 
Session 18: 
 Overfitting and Its Avoidance: 
 Generalization 
 Holdout Evaluation Vs. Cross Validation 
 
Session 19: 
 Decision Analytics 
 Evaluating Classifiers 
 Analytical Framework 
 Evaluation 
 Baseline, 
 Performance and Implications for Investments in Data 
 
Session 20: 
 Evidence and Probabilities 
 Explicit Evidence Combination with Bayes Rule 
 Probabilistic Reasoning 
 
Session 21: 
 Factor Analysis 
 Directional Data Analytics 
 Functional Data Analysis 
 
Session 22: 
 Introduction to KNIME 
 
